1839, Opium wars won by the UK
1847 Ienari Restauration, Japan ends the shogunate era
1848: USA goes at war with Mexico for western territory
1848 june-september, Japan colonizes most of the islands in the pacific, including hawaii
1849: Many colonial powers began colonizing Africa (France in the north [Algeria, Morroco, etc] , Portugal with Angola, UK in the east, and Japan the whole Congo. Altough Nigeria was a controversial place due to many claims by all the countries involved


1850 - Japan goes at war with Korea
1856 - USA goes at war against Canada and the UK for Washington, Oregon and Idaho
1856 - India annexes most groups from their mainland
1857 - Romanian Union and Independence
May 1859 - Italian Unification
June 1859 - Japan goes at war with China for Arthur Port
July 1859 - China Collapses
October 1859 - USA goes at war with Alaskan locals
December 1859 - Japanese Invasion of Manchuria, and Taiwan.
April 1860 - USA fully annexes Alaska
May 1860 - Beginning of Japanese Chinese Warlords wars
July 1860 - Beginning of Chinese Warlords wars in an attempt to unify China
December 1861 - Sweden and Norway deepen cooperation
March 1862 - Ottoman Empire goes at war with Egypt to return Adana, Lebanon, Israel, Syria
April 1864 - Canada is fully united, Ottoman wins the war
September 1865 - Major european countires (Prussia, France, Spain, Italy) condemn Japan's aggressive expansion into China. Italy and Prussia gives gurantees to Chinese Warlords
October 1865 - Yellow Sea Incident. (A Japanese Civilian ship was attacked by a Prussian ship, while delivering goods to Tianjin, owned by Beiyang Government, Puppet of Japan), taking 38 lives.
Japan demanded compensation from Prussia but they declined.
Japan declared war on Zhili Clique (Purssia's Gurantee) and Prussia
August 1866 - Ottoman Empire Faces Economic Challenges. Suspiciously, Romanian, Serbian and Greek diplomats met in secret in Bucharest.
October 1866 - Japan wins the Prussian war.
December 1866 - Herat declares war on Kabul for full anexation. In repsonse, Persia joins on the Kabuli side, seeking to return Herat to themselves and protect Kabul
January 1867 - Japan declares war on Vietnam
February 1867 - Ducth East Indies takes Aceh, getting closer to full Indonesian Unification
March 1867 - Guizhou Clique fully annexes Yunnan after a 5 year war. Japanese colonies (Guangxi, Guangdong, Hunan, Beiyang) met in Shanxi for disscutions regarding a coalition against Guizhou, without involving Japan.
April 1867 - US Economy hits $1.5B at a record pace. Many speculate that it'll surprass the Japanese economy pretty soon. Persia and Kabul won the war.
July 1, 1867 - North German Federation was formed
October 1867 - Germany and Austria united together forming the German Empire. Many say that this fragile union wouldn't last very long due to ethnic issues and power struggle from the Austrian and German leaders
January 1868 - Japan won the Vietnam war. Siam newspapers report that the Siamese government is getting the military ready for any Japanese agression.
Japan revoked any security gurantees from Siam.
March 1868 - The UK annexed Madagascar
November 1868 - Guangxi, Guangdong, Hunan and Beiyang launched an offensive against Guizhou. Guangxi forces reached the capital in just 2 days, making Guizhou capitulate. The four attackers split the terriotory equally.
November 1868 - UK goes at war with France to retake their port from the British Raj.
August 15, 1869 - Japanese and Siam officials met in Bangkok to negociate a deal. Sources say that Japan offered Siam the needed security gurantees back, but at a price: Siam would become a protectorate of Japan. And they accepted.
August 16, 1869 - Social unrest grew in the Serbian, Montenegrin, Bulgarian and Greek states owned by Ottoman Empire. Ottoman army was dispacthed to silence them. Romania publicly condems Ottoman actions.
August 17, 1869 - Romanian secret officers caught in Belgrade by the Ottoman forces. The Ottoman government threatens Romania with war. Romania denies everything. Russia backs them up.
August 20, 1869 - Romanian newspapers report Ottoman soldiers near their border, right at the danube.
August 24, 1869 - Tensions skyrocket. Russian forces enter Romania to support the Romanian Army. Social unrest grows in the balkan states.
August 30, 1869 - Romania, Russia, Greece, Serbia and Montenegro declare war on the Ottoman Empire.
October 14, 1869 - Germany goes at war with Bavaria.
January 1870 - The Ottoman empire surrenders. Serbia, Montenegro gain some states plus Independence, Greece as well, Bulgaria and Albania gain independence.
February 1870 - Japanese and German warships have a tiny show off in the Angolan Sea. Ironically, both violate Portugal's controlled Angola Angolan Sea. Local newspapers report that both warships ended being damaged, equally.
February 19, 1870 - UK Colony, British East Africa goes at war with African natives for control over Tanganyika
Februrary 20, 1870 - The Dutch have a hard time putting out the Ashanti Uprising.
March 1870 - Chinese Territorial Administration (CTA) was formed by the Japanese as an effort to bring the puppeted Warlords closer to eachother, it's capital in Beijing, controlled by Beiyang.
 This "nation" is more like a federation, where each state (Guangxi, Guangdong, Anhui, Beiyang, Xibei and Shandong) still have lots of rights and freedom in terms of laws.
Interstingly, Manchuria wasn't included in this formation.
March 3, 1870 - The German Empire officially embargoed Japan, as their response to the former 1866 Prussian Loss.
April 1870  - The German army is moving embarassily slow into Bavaria. It has been a stalemate for over 4 months! The French press calls the "New" Germany a soft underbelly.
May 5, 1870 - Sichuan Clique declared war on Xinjiang Clique, wanting to annex them fully.
July 14, 1870 - Italian officials met with Japanese officials in Seoul to discuss the Cangzhou port. Italy eventually ceded the port to Japan.
July 31, 1870 - US military industry goes at "war" with Japanese, German and British rivals. After the exhibition in Ottawa, hosted by Canada. The stage's attention was on Japanese, German and British war ships, miles ahead in terms of technology than the US counterparts.
3 August, 1870 - Australia and Japan launch joint investigation on the Torres Strait Islands after a "mysterious" murderer terriorized Japanese Papa New Guineea Puppet and Australia's Northen Terriotry, killing over 120 people!
Whitnesses say that the suspect fled there.
15 December, 1870 - The murderer was found and was identified as a Portuguese national from the Sunda Islands. The portuguese government got involved and arrested the suspect on their behalf
24 December, 1870 - Vietnam's and its puppet Cambodia's autonomy have been decreased by Japan. Today, their flag holds the Japanese flag alongside their coat of arms. Alongside that, Japan forms a new port in south Vietnam
to combat Singapore dominance as an economic hub, under their leadership. Siam, yet again, doubts their accord with being Japan's "Protectorate". The UK, despite having very good relations with Japan
condemned their actions.
Same day, Japan's puppet, Korea, overtakes UK as the leading electricity production in the whole world
25 December 1870 - Japan initiated a development fund available to all puppets and colonies to build Power Plants and Railways
January 13, 1871 - Romanian and Serbian officials met in Drobeta-Turnu Severin to declare their frendship formally
January 15, 1871 - The Bavarian war ended, Germany losing to them. Bavaria remained fully intanct. This made the Austrian part of the United German empire radicalized.
March 1871 - The situation in Germany gets worse. Separatist movements appear in the Austrian side. France is reaching out to Saarland for Security Gurantees, Romania funding movements in transilvania, Serbia in Croatia and Slovenia, Russia in
Ukrainian Territories and Italian troops are at Germany's border, ready to take back South Tyrol, Venetia and others.
START OF "The German Sundering War"
April 28, 1871 - Germany and Austria-Hungary got fractured. Germany at war with them. All neighboring countries line up their army. Russia, France, UK, Italy, Romania, Serbia in discussion for a possible millitary alliance
May 12, 1871 - Altough Czechoslovakia joined Austria, they broke away from them. Austria let them off the hook, focusing its army on the German war
May 15, 1871 - Big Entente was formed with UK, France, Russia, Romania, Serbia and Italy.
May 23, 1871 - Bavaria joins Austria. Russian troops enter Krakow, quickly caputring the city. Germany didn't do anything about it. This move made other countries take the initiative much more bold.
May 24, 1871 - Romanian forces enter Sibiu and Brasov. Serbian forces follow their moves and quickly move into Zagreb.
May 29, 1871 - Germany finally declares war on Russia after Russian forces quietly invaded their former Austrian-Hungary Ukrainian territory, the German news calling Russia "a coward" for not properly "invading a country"
May 30, 1871 - The Big Entente declares war on Germany.
June 1, 1871 - French army enters Saarbrucken. Hungary broke free from Austria and Germany combined, but declared war on Romania to take back southern Transilvania
Serbia and Russia continue their advance. UK navy completely annihilates the SMS Kaiser Wilhelm, flexing on Germany' navy.
Italy used a new flying machine in the war to bomb targets using explosives used for mining. This machine scared the german forces in the south. Newspapers across Europe speculate what it is, and the British called it a "Military Flyer". The US military industry
is now fully invested in this European war.
June 2, 1871 - Italy's flying machine was shot down by the German army and crashed in Verona. Their newspapers report that the "Dashboard was written in a different language, seemingly Japanese." Interstingly, the Explosives were made in Romania. Some daring newspapers claimed that
Japan offered Italy this prototype during the Cangzhou port talks, all the way back in July 1870
June 9, 1871 - Hungary capitulated to Romania after their biggest army division was imprisoned in Fagaras
June 21, 1871 - French and British forces met in Mainz with German forces. The battle was deadly. Both sides lost over 125K men!
June 30, 1871 - Russia launches full scale invasion against Germany. German forces have to rellocate, Making the Balkan front significantally weaker.
July 25, 1871 - Serbia captured Croatia and is now moving into Slovenia. Romania make steady progress into Transilvania. Italy sees low military presence from Germany in their campaign
July 26, 1871 - Trenches built along the Rhine River. Germany goes full swing against the British and French
August 19, 1871 - Germany surrendered to Entente forces. Germany was very weakened after the long Bavarian war. Officials met in Prague to discuss the treaty of Germans:
France gains SaarBrucken
Italy takes back claimed territories (Lombardia, Venetia, South Tyrol and Istria
Serbia takes Croatia and Slovenia
Romania takes full control of Transilvania
Russia takes east and west Galicia
Germany takes Bavaria, and is prohibited to attack Austria.
END OF "The German Sundering War"
August 19, 1871 - Siam has the same fate as Vietnam. Their flag was changed to show the Japanese flag, becoming Japan's puppet
September 1871 - Japan targets Malaya. Siam forces line up at Johore's border at Japan's order.
September 1, 1871 - Sichuan Clique sucessfully won the war.
Same day, Yugoslavia was formed, but Montenegro isn't included
November 1, 1871 - Johore accepts the demands and becomes annexed by Japan
July 10, 1872 - After countless rivalries (UK, USA, France, Japan) in getting the contract to build the Panama canal, Japan sucessfully got the contract and shortly build the canal.
August 1, 1872 - Tokyo Treaty: Major colonial powers from africa (UK, France, Japan, Italy, Netherlands, Denmark, Spain) met in Tokyo to split the continent
August 26, 1872 - Japanese and American officials met in Honolulu, Japan (Hawaii is owned by Japan) to declare their friendship formally. They were allies since the US-Canadian war.
January 1, 1873 - Japan and its Chinese puppets organize the Expedition to Tibet, in an attempt to bring Tibet under the CTA. Japan sent Masujiro Hayashi.
January 2, 1873 - Montenegro faces a revolution the rebels call themselves "Communist" and "Socialist".
February 9, 1873 - The Ottoman Empire is at war again with Egypt, this time, wanting to transfer the Puppet Hedjaz from Egypt. Surprisingly, UK sided with the Ottoman while the French with the Egyptians.
February 10, 1873 - Japan for the first time ever introduced a yearly summit for its puppets called 'Pacific summit' (PS). Each year, the summit will be hosted in any capital from any puppet state. This year was a success and an information scared even the Japanese government!
The total GDP of the Chinese Warlords under Japanese control is a whopping 1.24B! IF China were to be united, itll have the fifth largest economy
March 1, 1873 - The US economy surprassed the Japanese for the first time ever. Parties are errupting all across the US.
September 18, 1873 - Japan won the contract to build the Suez canal. The competition was fierce, but Japan won again…
January 1, 1874 - The UK, a Japanese ally, claimed the newly obtained Suez canal. Japan rejected UK's demand to cede the canal
August 1, 1874 - The Ottoman empire won the war
April 5, 1875 - Hayashi reached Tibet's capital, demanding their obedience. But they refused, dragging Japan into a war against Tibet.
January 18, 1876 - Japan defetead Tibet, making Tibet their protectorate
February 10, 1876 - The PS from this year welcomed Tibet into the CTA.
February 11, 1876 - The British Raj's economy grows really fast. Experts say that it might pass Japan!
May 11, 1876 - The Swiss Spring - The state was split in two factions. Western Switzerland, whos gov is a democratic republic and Eastern Switzerland which is a constitutional duchy.
June 28, 1877 - Japan is now controlling 100% of the Chinese territory. This marks the end of the Chinese Warlord Wars and Japanese-Chinese Warlords wars. They plan for the next PS for all the warlords to vote if they want to form One United China.
February 10, 1878 - China is now united again, under a single banner. Its capital is in Beijing, former Beiyang capital. Japan still controls this new Chinese Union, and still calls it internally 'CTA'. The votes were overwhelming too. 94% in favor for union.
Interstingly, Manchuria wasn't included in this formation, once again.
February 15, 1878 - The US newspaper, New York Times, reported that Japan controls a whopping 52% of the new united China's GDP, totaling to 620M$! If Japan was to add this number to their offical numbers, they'd be the first country to reach 5B$ GDP.
May 4, 1880 - Japan began changing Chinese laws and tries making them more "Japanised", by introducing a Constitutional Monarchy type of Government.
December 23, 1880 - USA goes at war with Mexico to annex Baja California, Sonora, and Rio Grande and Revoke Mexico's claims on Texas and Utah
May 1, 1881 - Chinese economic bubble pops. 4B$ were wiped from their economy overnight, affecting the entire Japanese sphere of influence. Japan's economy exploded together with the Chinese one, reaching 10.69B$
when overnight it decreased back to 9.32B$, and kept going down. Korea was hit the most. It reached 3B$ when it crashed back to 1.69B$ The entire sphere's economy is going down at an alarming rate.
Japanese economists call this "The Asian Financial Crisis"
25 September 1882 - Russia becomes a Tsardom
August 19, 1883 - After a long cautious war, USA won against Mexico, taking only 1000 lives!
March 12, 1884 - Over 35M people in China are in a dire state of starvation after the economic collapse. Japan, Korea and Manchuria sent aid.
June 1, 1887 - Japan opens its border to Chinese people.  A massive surge of immigration happens in Japan. Over 4M people enter Japan daily
November 5, 1890 - Japan closed its borders.
April 20, 1891 - Japan and the US had joint military exercises in the Pacific. Both nations were friendly to eachother and amicable in their talks.
August 8, 1892 - Japan faces many economic challenges. Japan is facing a demographic collapse seemingly overnight. Their puppets seem to do rather well…
August 10, 1892 - It wasn't just Japan. The whole world is undergoing economic problems. Economists don’t find a good reason for it. It isn't anyone's fault. People just began buying less.
May 22, 1892 - Macau revolts against Portuguese Occupation
December, 1894 - USA dominates the global economy. Now that Japan's facing economic collapse (-15% yearly growth) together with its puppets, and the UK grows exponantioally financially, an US ally,
The United States consolidates its power in the global stage, pressuring Japan to give up Hawaii back to the US, despite the population being Shinto and Japanese there in Hawaii
January 9, 1895 - Japan cedes Hawaii to the US, without a fight. This turns the attention of the CTA and Japan's puppets to possibly, gain independence.
May 10, 1897 - The Japanese economy is recovering, and Japan is the first country in the world to produce electronic circuits at a large scale.
August 10, 1900 - Japan's defense minister just approved a big project to rearm the Japanese Military
September 1, 1900 – The US, Japan and UK met today in New York to discuss a ‘Global faction to promote worldwide peace’. All three nations voiced their agreement. And, as a sign of actually being serious about this,
They signed a Non-Aggresion pact, and made a formal military alliance. The three countries invited dozen of major countries, including France, Russia, Germany, Romania, Netherlands, Belgium, Italy and Brazil
December 10, 1900 – This time, the three powers organized the meeting in Paris. France, Russia, Romania, Netherlands, Belgium and Brazil all came. Germany and Italy didn’t come.
They called this formation the ‘League of Nations’ (LON).  All countries in this union were prohibited to attack eachother, or other countries WITHOUT the permission of the 3 permanent members: Japan, UK and the US.
But neither the permanent members couldn’t attack anyone else, because the other members were to strike back and embargo, pressure or even REMOVE the country from the organization.
Mandatory laws were enacted in the formation countries too: Abolished slavery, and mandatory yearly report of their military strenght, as an attempt to avoid any Military arms race.
All puppet states are include.
Official members: Romania, Netherlands, Russia, France, British Raj, China, Korea, Manchuria, Vietnam, Siam, Dutch East Indies, Canada, British Trucial States, Yugoslavia, Montenegro, Belgium Brazil, Australia, New Zealand,
And all french/british african colonies.
The 3 Permanent Members: Japan, UK, US
February 23, 1902 - First sea plane was flown in the Sea of Japan, created by the Japanese company Mitsubishi
February 25, 1902 - The UK goes at war against France and Kathiri to try and annex Yemen.
March 6, 1902 - Kathiri gave up.
October 1, 1905 - Sweden and Norway formed a Union, seeking to make Scandinavia once agan…
January 13, 1906 - Despite repeated attempts to stop the UK from attacking France over Tahiti, the LON failed, with UK declaring war on France. Altough the LON terms specifically said to embargo and punish the attacking states, the formation did nothing yet.
France promised to leave LON if the formation didn't stop the UK.
START OF "British-French Tahiti war"
January 16, 1906 - Japanese Kempeitai reported in secret to the US Secret Service that there might be a posiblity of Germany and Italy making a secret alliance, that could include Scandinavia too.
The US ordered that this information shall remain classified from the LON members. This also forced the US Secret Serivce (USSS) for the first time to investigate abroad.
January 20, 1906 - The first naval battles between France and the UK are held in the English Channel, and the UK absolutely destroyed the French, also causing some civilian casualties, mostly Belgian and Dutch people,
due to many civilian routes going there. Later this day, Germany were quick to releasing propaganda against the LON countries, in which France is targeted the most…
Romania, Russia, Yugoslavia and especially Netherlands and Belgium fear Germany attacking France to conquer Aslace-Lorraine.
January 22, 1906 - The LON nations (Romania, Russia, Yugoslavia, US and Japan) all agreed to send volunteers in France to defend Aslace-Lorraine to deter the Germans. The limit per country is approx 5000 men.
January 25, 1906 - Japan changed their ruler today to Sukenori Yamato after their former one died from a Heart stroke
February 1, 1906 - The LON forces arrived in France. UK successfully lands in Hao
March 2, 1906 - Europe is divided. Germany and Italy join the UK against France and the LON. US officially declared war on the British, Germans and italy in support of France.
Japan can't join the war as they are still mourning the Emperor's death, and instead are sending equipment.
April 1, 1906 - LON officially kicked the UK out, making France a permanent member instead, and publicly announced Embargoes against UK, Italy and Germany.
UK's colonies (Australia, India, Canada, NZ) are in a contested status by the LON, and are currently discussing what to do with them.
Japan proposed emabrgoes against Scandinavia too, since they are supllying the German war effort with Iron and Food, but the LON hasn't voted on this yet.
April 16, 1906 - UK lands on French soil in Cherbourg. LON forces reorganize and sent half of troops there.
April 21, 1906 - UK makes a lot of progress in France, humiliating the French forces together with the LON ones. Japan wants to send their new Mitsubishi A2 fighter plane for CAS against the British and awaits confirmation from the LON.
Later that day, LON agreed.
April 25, 1906 - UK colony, HK, challenges Japan's China with artillery shells. CTA sends troops to HK area and Tibet to defend against a potential British Raj attack.
Later that day, a border conflict emerged with UK's Singapore and Japan's Malayan territories. UK soldiers attacked Japanese border guards, killing 25 people. Dutch East Indies Government militarizes to protect against Australia
and UK
April 27, 1906 - The French troops managed to stop Germany's advance into Strasbourg, and Italian's in Nice. LON forces struggle against the UK troops in Cherbourg
Same day, UK challenges Japanese Navy in the Java Sea. Japan fought back causing the UK some minor loses.
April 30, 1906 - LON sucessfully dragged Russia in the war with them starting a full scale invasion against Germany…
Same day, a seemingly unkown Russian immigrant from Germany is rumored to travel back to Finalnd. Ivan Arkadyevich Morozov. A russian journalist, known for its radicalist "Socialist" ideas was banned from Russia back in 1890!
May 1, 1906 - Japan flexes its aircraft tech in France, terrifying British Soldiers. One famous quote from an unknown british soldier as the A2 flew over him : "Id rather die in a swamp than to hear that engine again." Japanese
company, Mitsubishi, took advantage of this, and made a propagand poster for the japanese people saying that the A2 is dark magic  and a force not to be reckoned with.
May 25, 1906 - Polish resistance grows in Germany and Russia too.
May 26, 1906 - Netherlands together with their puppet, Dutch East Indies was dragged into the war due to UK bombing in Jakarta.
May 27, 1906 - Japan officially declares war on UK, Germany and Italy. Also sends ultimatum to British Raj, Australia, NZ to not attack the Dutch East Indies, any Japanese puppet in the Guinea or Japanese controlled Islands
or Siam, Japanese Malaya and the CTA. If they do, they'll 'face the wrath of the Japanese and US army', said the Japanese foregin minister, hinting at a full Japanese-American cooperation in the Pacific. USSS inteligence hints at Japan
trying to form a silent 'Asian Sword' to deter any enemies from attacking its sphere of influence.
May 29, 1906 - Scandinavia annouces neutrality in the conflict wanting to avoid LON embargoes as their recent union brought some 'internal troubles'. Germany was furious, their newspapers calling them 'cowards and untrustworthy.'
May 30, 1906 - The Russian immigrant caused trouble in Finalnd, making a staggering 'Socialist Campaign and Anti Russian sentiments' getting the support of many people, causing a big strike in Helsinki.
Russia ordered Finalnd to arrest that man and silence them. Later that day, Russia ordered Martial Law in Finalnd.
June 1, 1906 - UK's RAE annouced a new figther plane to defend against Japan called the Spitfire BiP.
June 2, 1906 - LON fined Russia a hefty fine for not treating Ivan accordingly and humanly, forcing them to unban him from Russia. He fleed almost immedietly from Finalnd back to Russia.
June 6, 1906 - Ivan travels around Russia, campaigning for his Socialst cause, promising the people of Russia to free them from the poverty. The Tsarist government cant do anything about it YET. Germany makes a lot of progress in Russia, capturing Warsaw.
June 7, 1906 - Yugoslavia joins the war against the Axis, wanting to get Trieste from Italy. Romania joins too, supporting their advance.
August 1, 1906 - The RAE BiP was effective against the A2, proving to be a worthy competitor.
August 2, 1906 - The UK was forced out of French soil. It's war effort goes back to Africa…
December 8, 1906 - Japan and the US jointly started to atttack British islands in the Pacific, and docked lots of Warships near Sydney, warning Australia to not even think about attacking the LON.
December 9, 1906 - Hungary joins the party against the LON, wanting a quick win to capture some villages in Romania and Yugoslavia, but failed. In just 11 hours, Romanian troops reached Budapest together with Yugoslav support, making the Hungarians surrender in record time.
Yugoslavia, and Romania made a formal alliance called the 'Balkan Agreement' to deter any Hungarian attacks.
December 12, 1906 - Germany has some breakthroughs, capturing Strasbourg. The war in Africa began now, as some say due to the great weather for fighthing.
December 15, 1906 - After months of fighthing, Italy captures Corsica
On new year's eve - the US together with France and Japan launched a massive naval strike on Portsmouth, threatening a naval invasion, that failed due to bad weather conditions. Japan lost 57K men, US 71K and France 29K, causing some strikes in all three countries.
January 2, 1907 - Japan and the US formed a provisional government in the pacific islands occupied from the UK.
January 4, 1907 - Yugoslav and Romanian forces reached Opatija! An inch closer to Trieste!
Ferbruary 14, 1907 - Polish people revolted in Germany and Russia by not working and not serving their military, flowing Polish flags…
April 7, 1907 - UK makes progress in France occupied Algeria, while Italy advances in French Occupied Niger and Chad from Libya. France also dominates in Kenya. US and France advance into Cape Colony from Japanese Zambia
April 9, 1907 - Germany launches offensive against Netherlands and Belgium, pillaging everything in their conquest, while they destroy the Russians in the east, to a point where even Romania sent soldiers to Russia.
May 1, 1907 - Ivan forms an illegal political party called RCP (Russian Communist Party) as the government doesn’t allow any political party. Their HQ is unknown, but some estimate that atleast 1M people already support this movement
September 7, 1907 - The Mogilev massacre. The Russian army killed 1000 people after a peaceful demonstration, organised by the RCP. LON yet again, fined Russia, a bigger fine this time.
Same day, Germany reached Minsk.

January 19, 1908 - The African French military area is under collapse. Italy landed in Algeria to support the British, while UK also attacks Senegal, embarassing the French. But, the French managed to occupy all of British East African Colonies.
March 1, 1908 - Japan has invented the first commercially avaialble, and mass produced Gas Turbine, a cooperation between Kawasaki and Mitsubishi.
After a long campaign, in March 7, 1908, Germany managed to occupy both Netherlands and Belgium and launched a renowed offensive against LON and France. Their eastern front was going exteremly well, with Russia showing no resistance
Moving to occupy all baltic nations from Russia.
On the same day, Yugoslavia, Romania and Italy agreed on a 2 month ceasfire due to a stalemate in Optaija.
March 10, 1908 - The US Army unveiled a new Fighter plane on the world stage called the M-1 Falcon, built by Martin Aircraft Company, engineered together with Japan and France. Japan built the new A3 'Sunshine' based on the M1 with much more agility in mind while the French
focused on the security of the pilot called Blériot XI-Ch. All three countries intend to send them to destroy and give the British and Germans a nice lesson.
March 20, 1908 - Japan battles the British navy in the Red Sea. It was an exteremly deadly fight. Both sides lost lots of men and ships… Ironically, Egyptian wooden ships! (for context, its still independent) rescued both parties and gave them shelter
Surprisingly they got along well… A Turkish newspaper saying that the japanese and british danced together on egyptian music.
The fight of the Mediterranean - In march 25, 1908, the Japanese Suez canal got bombed by modifed RAE BiP planes, causing Japan to take out their navy fleet and attack the britsh in the Mediterranean sea, close to Cyprus.
US and France joined the party.
March 26, 1908 - Despite war efforts, the LON council prepared the 'Expansion Phase' making a list of countries they wanna invite. It includes Greece, Turkey, Albania, Spain, Portugal, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Burma, Nepal, Denmark
Finalnd and surprisingly, Scandinavia too. However, on the same day, the LON decalred the RCP a threat to LON peace.
May 1, 1908 - The US wants to put an end to this war, and sent 500K men in France to blitz in Germany and force a surrender. On the same day, Germany caputred Kiev. Causing a massive shake in Russia.
Three main factions formed. Tsarist Russia, White Russia (democratic and liberal russia) and the RSR (Russian Soviet Republic). Russia was in a full on civil war!
May 2, 1908 - Finland broke free, and already rushed to Stockholm to try and join Scandinavia.
May 24, 1908 - US troops arrived in France.
June 17, 1908 - Major breakthrough in south of France. Italy advances in France, caputring Lyon, Toulouse, Marseille and Dijon. US forces attack Germany through occupied Netherlands and Belgium.
Instead of sending some soldiers too, Japan agreed to send 350K men together with 100K CTA, Manchu, Korean, Siamese and Vietnamese soldiers in France to fight the Italians.
June 23, 1908 - UK and Italy captured almost all French African territories. Italy is getting dangerosly close to Paris, while the UK lands in Normandy once again…
June 26, 1908 - Russia capitulated to Germany due to their civilwar. When Germany wanted to claim its new lands, it received lots, lots of resistance from Ukrainian, Polish and Baltic seperatitsts… It’s a mess in eastern europe.
July 5, 1908 - Italy and the UK encircled Paris and the french surrendered. The Charbourg Treaty includes:
UK takes Tahiti and caputred cities from France (Brest, Le Havre, Le Crotoy and Dunkirk)
Italy takes Corsica
Germany takes Aslace-Lorraine
France shall remain neutral and NOT interact or join LON again together with Netherlands and Belgium. Plus, all of them will stop imposing any tarif on German, British and Italian goods.
Interestingly, LON and the axis are techincally still at war, but none of them made any significant moves. LON is calculating the consequences of a 'white peace' with the Axis.
END OF "British-French Tahiti war"
Despite LON considering peace, Yugoslavia and Romania are still fighting for Trieste. Increasing pressure from the LON and the Axis made Italy, Romania and Yugoslavia stop fighting
being the first official peace treaty between the Axis and LON. Shortly later, the Axis has accepted the LON peace agreement which took place in New York.:
Romania and Yugoslavia will stop fighting, and italy will do the same. A demilitarized line will be formed at the Yugoslav-italian border, with Yugoslavia letting British officers make sure they don’t violate the terms
in the city of Rijeka. Italy is obligied to do the same with LON soldiers in Opatija.
Axis will recognize the Balkan borders and respect the 'Balkan Alliance'
However, Russia is in a dire state. Even the german army pulled out from the Ukrainain and baltic states…
December 13, 1908 - The Polish republic was finally formed, and quietly recognized by all LON members...
Their resistance was fierce, and made the Germans surrenders, making them recognize the Polish.
September 12, 1909 - Ivan imprisoned most of the RCP members, to instead, put his better friends in position. The situation in Russia is quite interesting.
Karelia and the north is controlled by the RCP, Moscow area and others around it, Tsarist Russia while the Whites control the Caucasian Region and Siberia.
December 13, 1909 - The Ducth flu outbreak. The other big flu that might turn into a global pandemic…
July 12, 1911 - The RCP moves into the Baltics states, annexing them completelty.
A big event in Europe - The fascists movements in Italy, UK and Germany take place… on December 1913
July 15, 1912 - The UK doesn’t allow its puppets to be in the LON anymore, sparking criticism from the puppets themselves and LON, preparing another embargo against the Axis. Same day, the Switzerland Union happened.
August 1, 1914 - Montenegro joins Yugoslavia.
January 1, 1916 - Czechoslovakia, Greece, Denmark, Scandinavia, Portugal, Spain, Mexico, Cuba, Haiti joined the LON officially.
February 9, 1916 - The RCP won, taking and securing the whole of Russia… naming it the Soviet Union.
March 4, 1917 - The Soviets go on a flashy war to conquer the East of Poland. LON heavily embargoed the Soviets and supported the Poles.
20 Ddecember, 1917 - Soviets won, taking Volhynia, East Gallicia and Hrodna
